From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one recorded Friday, December 23rd, 2005. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
automated QA makers of test
complete providing automated testing of
windows.net framework, Java and web
applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter
bloom.com start with better controls
finish with better sites online@peterblum.com.
Support is also provided by
franklins.net training developers to work
smarter and now offering public
and private hands on classes
in VB net 2005 and
ASP net 2.0 online@wwwdotfranklinsdotnetandby.net developers
journal the world's leading microsoft.net
magazine online@dotnetdotsys-con.com. And that let
me introduce to you the
star of the show, Scott
Hanselman and your host with
the most, the toast of
the East coast. And I
don't mean to boast and
I didn't write this really
Carl Franklin. Hello, and welcome to
Hansel minutes. This is Carl Franklin
hosted.net rocks. And what we
plan to do here is
bring you Scott Hanselman in
all his glory every week
with stories from the field,
and we'll get his ideas
about what the show is.
And we'll in a little
bit of the history of
why, why we're doing this.
I don't really have an
introduction prepared for Scott. I've
had him on Don Iraq's
a couple of times, and
he's also a regional director
like myself from the Portland
area. He works in the
banking industry and in works
on really, really powerful ASP
net systems that have to
be absolutely perfect. You know,
when you're dealing with banking,
there is absolutely no room
for error. So, you know,
to say that he's a
little bit high, strong is
a maybe an understatement. I
mean, he's very, very careful
about his work, but he's
also brought more tools in
references to external tools to.net
rocks. Then I think I've
ever seen in my life,
he's got a list of
tools on his blog that
just defies imagination. And every
time we talk to him,
he's always introducing me to
some new tool. He introduced
me to code rush, and
he introduced a lot of
our audience To a lot
of the tools that we
use now all the time.
So that any further ado
on this premiere episode of
Hansel minutes, let's just introduce
the man Scott Hanselman. Hi
Scott. Hi. That was a
very kind and overly a
fluent introduction, but I'd very
much appreciate it. You are
a little high strung, aren't
you? I'm, I'm known to
be a little type a,
but I, you know, yeah,
we do. We do what
we can. Someone asked me
what my hobby was and
not, not having a hobby
has a tendency to give
you a lot of time
to do this kind of
crap. Right. And first of
all, let's just get it
out of the way. Congratulations
on your new child. Thank
you very much. His name
is  and he's pushing
seven pounds. Now he's three
weeks and three days old
and I'm up to my
neck and poop, but that's
the way it should be.
Alright. So let's tell everybody
why we, you know, why
this show exists. Sure. So
briefly and people who've read
my blog will probably catch
me on this. That I've
not been too much of
a fan of podcasting. I
think The word was podcasting
sucks. Podcasting. Our podcasting sucks.
I think has been said
a couple of times you're
more than welcome to look
it up on the blog.
It was the lack of
content. I don't want podcasting
to be, Hey Mike, you
know, I'm picky. You know,
people always say blogging is
way the way blogging is
because people like to post
pictures of their cat. Right.
And I was worried and
I'm worried that podcasting can
very much become a discussion
of pictures of your cat.
And I'm like, just even
for an example, to get
an idea of how high
strung I am. We've been
talking for three minutes and
I feel that there's been
no significant content yet. That's
how nervous I am that
I want to make sure
we got a lot of
good content in the, in
Hansel minutes because it's not
Hansel hours. Right. Right. It
is going to be a
shorter show. We'll be a
little bit shorter show. And
it's gonna be the kind
of show that I think
someone could listen to on
the way to work. And
hopefully have a bit of
a, a bit more information,
a little less talk and
a little more content. I'm
going to talk about tools,
new tools that I've found
tools that I'm currently using
things that are really utilitarian.
You know, that's a really
good word. Excellent. That word.
I think if, if Hanselman,
it could be anything. I
would like it to be
utilitarian tools of the week.
What's hot. What are the
great things that are people
are talking about on the
blog? I think it would
like to be a podcast
for people who don't have
time to read the Scoble
sized chunk of blogs that
are out there. Right. I
know I read about 250
blogs a day using feed
demon. And I know that
I don't have the patience
to read 500 or 700
or whatever amount of Scoble
reads. I'm sure most people
don't have the patience or
the time to read that
much content. So if I
can provide some, some benefit
by breaking that information down,
then that's great. Yeah. We
should also say that we
already recorded one of these
and we're going to call
it the midweek geek. And
we just decided to call
it Hanselman it's I think
that you came up with
that name didn't, You know,
the, actually the etymology of
Hansel minutes is from Travis
Illig Travis elig is a
engineer that I work with
who has a blog called
parasthesia and Hansel minutes is
what is a unit of
time when you ask Scott
Hanselman for how long something
will take, and there's a
Hanselman it's conversion factor. I
have a tendency to say,
Oh yeah, I can write
that up in 10 minutes.
Yeah. Or y'all yeah, that'll
take about half an hour.
Right. And then they usually
apply a Hanselman it's conversion
factor and find out that
it really takes three days
to write the code. So
let's just Into the content
and as we were going
to, as we were going
to do every week, so
what do you got for
us this week? Well, there's
two tools that I've been
using this last couple of
weeks that have really been
making my life a lot
easier so far. These are
not shareware. These are just
loving, that has been passed
on from the dotnet community
from two individuals in particular.
The first one is Kenny
Kurz window clippings, window clippings.
And you can get this@tinyearltinyurl.com
slash BD, V as in
Victor, Z, Z as in
Zed, K tiny earl.com BD
visa, ed K, No. I'm
curious as to why you're
not using shrinks Because tiny
Earl has less war, less
letters in it than shrinks
there does. Right. But the
actual, you know, the cryptic
part of it has more
characters, Six one half dozen.
The other there's a particular
tool I use it sits
in my tray that lets
me automatically tiny Earl, everything
that gets clicked cut into
my clipboard. I started using
tiny arrow a long time
ago. Yeah. As long as
we're comparing notes, I have
the same tool for shrink
stir shrink lit. Oh, okay.
That's fantastic. So yeah, tiny
Earl is actually as an
aside, tiny Earl and shrink,
stir anything at all that
we'll take a five line
long Earl and turn it
into something shorter is great.
I'm actually debating creating one
where I would just be
able to say hanselman.com/tools/four. Yeah.
And I may actually set
that up for the All
right. So let's talk about
this thing. Okay. So Kenny
Kerr as a blogger, and
he's got a blog up
at weblogs.asp.net/kenny Kerr. And window
clippings is a at first
glance, a print, a print
screen tool, but there's a
million different print screen tools
out there. And, and most
people just use alt print
screen. But one of the
things that Kenny noticed is
that in windows, the corners
of the Explorer window and
most windows, anytime that you
have a themed windows XP
theme, particularly the default theme
actually have rounded edges. If
you take a look real
close at your windows, I
explore window or even the
chat window that I've got
open with Carl right now,
you'll see that you've got
rounded edges. When you do
a print screen, you end
up with a rectangular region
in the background. Color does
not end up matching whatever
color you're going to be
rendering that image onto. So
typically you just put that
window over a white background
and you just kind of
lie and suffer with that.
What Kenny's created is a
real nice tool that lets
you double click on his
icon in the tray. And
he will create an irregular
region, a non rectangular region
and create a transparent PNG.
A PNG of course is
a better graphics format, Portable
network graphics. Yeah. This is
a 24 bit alpha channel
supporting, you know, so therefore
transparency supporting format. Exactly. You've
got an outfit. You've got
eight bits for red, green,
and blue and an additional
eight bits for a total
of 32 for the alpha
channel. Exactly. Yup. So his
tool will let you do
this. When you double click
on the tool and the
tray, the screen goes gray
in that kind of way.
When, when, like when you
see windows XP, shutting down,
everything goes gray. You move
your mouse over the window.
You want double click on
it. That one jumps out
of the screen indicating is
this the one you want?
And then in his options,
he can automatically save the
file into a folder on
your desktop, which for me
is great because then I
can immediately blog it from
blog jet blog, jet.com, which
is a tool I used
to post a DAS blog.
So he'll automatically put it
in the clipboard. This is,
we should talk about blog
jet too. This is an
interesting thing. I'm obviously, you
know, getting pictures in a
blog is tricky because you
have to have access to
your web server and then
you have to make a
URL to it and then
include that URL in an
image tag, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah. So what is
this? Do Blas does that
for you? Yeah. Blog jet
is an offline blogging, a
blog writer. It supports a
whole host of blogging API
APIs, like the meadow weblog
API and the blogger API.
And additionally like these are,
these are ones, of course,
that dosh blog supports DAS
blog has its own API,
but it's not something that
has caught on. And in
a widespread way, we support
the blogger standard API and
the met a web log
API, which adds the support
for categories. You load up
blog jet, which is a
very small kind of app
that it's really just hosting
the IAE editable DHT Mel
regions, which gives you the
same kind of HTML generation
support that IES editable is
gives you. And you say,
I'm going to be using
a dos blog or I'm
going to be using a
community server and it will
automatically configure the appropriate API.
You give it the end
point, the Earl to your
particular blog. And then since
DAS blog and most blogs,
don't support posting of images.
It has a very clever
hack. It will post the
blog text via the blogging
API, and then it will
do a parallel of FTP
upload, nice of the image
and then automatically turn your
relative Earls into absolute Earls
and vice versa. So with
blog, it's a fantastic, fantastic
tool. I believe it's the
only one for DAS blog
and it That's it blog
jet.com. We should say Blogs,
jet.com. And if you go
up on my blog right
now and search for DAS
blog, one of the most
recent posts is actually a
gentleman has done a complete,
a fairly complete analysis of
every single, offline blogging tool
he could find logged. It's
a very popular one. Another
one that's very popular is
called w dot blogger, except
blogger is spelled a R
B L O G G
a R w blogger. And
this gentleman has done a
very extensive offline analysis of
all the different tools you
could post to your blog
with and whether or not
they work with DAS blog.
Yeah, he's done a very
nice compatibility matrix. So a
window clippings is the tool
from Kenny that I've been
using to do my, my
posting of images. That's pretty
nice. And it'll even do
very, very irregular regions, like
the kind of skinned irregular
regions you get when you're
messing around with windows media
center and media player, rather
windows media player. Is that
a, is that the tool
you use all the time
to, to, to clip out
pictures and posts? Yeah, I've
started using Kenny's tool pretty
much all the time. I
it's it's, it's always in
the tray and it is
the tool that I decided
to use now for my
screenshots. Although there's another screenshot
tool that I've been using
recently. That's I think just
come out of beta it's
from Leon Bambrick and this
is something that actually won
one of the awards in
Mike Gunder lawyer, recent Lark,
where Mark, where.com coding contest.
It's called time snapper. And
he's actually put up a
site at times, snapper.com. And
this is very, very clever.
This is one of those
things that I think we've
all thought about writing at
one point or the other.
And it's an automatic screenshot
journal that runs in the
background on your machine automatically
taking screenshots of your desktop
every couple of minutes. As
long as you work on
your system, it's only an
ADK download and what's clever
about it is it creates
a timeline. So for if
you're a person that gets
paid by the hour by
the minute, and you said,
well, what the heck am
I doing this week? I
need to fill out a
time card. What was I
doing Wednesday at two o'clock.
You can actually run by
and see a playback of
your week. I'm not talking
about a Camtasia, realtime playback,
but I'm talking about a,
if you manage your time
in 15 minute increments, what
exactly were you doing about
this time? Wow, that's excellent.
Oh, it's fantastic. And it's
free. It's 80 K to
download it and it uses.net.
Awesome. Yeah, it's really fantastic.
I'm pretty impressed with what
they, what they turned out
Better use for that new
400 gig hard drive you
got for Christmas or Hanukkah
present as the case may
be. I've actually found that
it's, they're doing a pretty
good job. Of course, when
you're doing something like this,
you don't need a lot
of compressor. You don't need
a lot of details. So
the compression's not too bad
in 30 K you know,
30 K per shot or
50 K per shot. No
problem for every five minutes
is really trivial. You're looking
at maybe a mega day.
Yeah. And if they obviously
have some sort of mechanism
to go back through those
and look at them in
an, in an organized way.
Yeah. They've actually got a
very nice slider tool that
shows you when the time
of the day, along with
when the shot was taken,
that's a time snapper.com. That
is super cool. As the
website says, now, Scott, I
see on the show notes
page that you sent me,
that you want to talk
about the Xbox three 60.
Yeah, absolutely. And not in
the typical way that people
have been talking about it.
Yeah. Which is how can
I get one? Okay. Well,
yeah. How can I get
one? Of course I pre-ordered
mine in July. Okay. And
just got it a couple
of weeks. Well, actually when
I say about a week
and a half ago, certainly
I didn't have to stay
overnight anywhere and sleep out
front of best buy to
try to get my Xbox
three 60. All that's good.
I was on the second
shipment, July or June, end
of June when I ordered
it was not early enough.
But what I'm excited about
with the Xbox three 60
is its potential as a
media hub readers of my
blog were folks that want
to go back and look
at my blog, do a
search for media. I've been
searching for the ultimate kind
of media hub system for
years. I've tried, UPNP you
know, the universal plug and
play, which is a protocol
that will allow you to
do discoverable media within your
house. I run on a
UPNP server called Twinkie, TW
O N K Y. If
you search for Twinkie or
the Twinkie music server, this
is a free with an
alternate consumer alternate commercial upgrade
UPNP server. Let's talk about
that. I mean, you said
at some that lets you
connect in your house and
stuff, but doesn't it isn't
this like an automatic firewall
port opener kind of product.
It's it's a protocol that
does everything from what's called
Nat traversal network address translation
traversal at it is a
protocol, a protocol that sits
above TCP IP that provides
information about, I wish to
talk to that system over
there, figure out how I'm
going to get over there.
And I want to speak,
I want a certain kind
of media get me this
media. I'm not really worried
about how it happened Or
like USB for software. That's
a very good way to
put it is it is
like USB for software and
you can get a UPNP
server. Twinkie is a very,
very well known one that
is known for being very,
very reliable. But the one
that you can get a
very easily from windows media
is the windows media connect
2.0 stuff that was released
just a month or so
ago. This adds some new
stuff in your control panel
and a little guy in
your tray. Yet. Another thing
in your tray that lets
you say, I want this
folder in that folder presented
as UPN UPNP available, shared
content windows media also provides
a little bit more granularity
as far as access control.
You actually have to specifically
allow access from a machine.
So I've got a big
250 gig removable hard drive
that I have all of
my media on. I've got
pictures, I've got video, I've
got music, I've set up
each of those folders with
windows media connect to be
shareable from my main machine.
So then when I plug
in another machine, whether it
be a windows media center
system or a X-Box three
60 in this case, I
am then prompted to allow
or disallow access to that,
to that machine. So what
is Xbox three 60 do
in terms of accessing media?
So the Xbox three 60
has a main dashboard. That's
much more advanced than the
previous X-Box is dashboard. And
it's got a vertical blue.
They call it the blades.
It's got a blade interface,
which is basically a tabs
like the kind you would
see on the left hand
side of outlook. You know,
you click inbox and it
goes, right. Calendar goes, swish.
Imagine that flipped on its
side, flipped 90 degrees. And
it goes back and forth.
You've got Xbox live, you've
got games and you've got
media. So you've actually put
media very much upfront. There
you go to media and
then you can say, I
want pictures. I want video.
I want music. So I
can go down now on
my HDTV downstairs, turn on
my Xbox with on a
universal remote control. This is
very important for the wife
acceptance factor, right? The wife
go downstairs, turn on the
Xbox. She goes over to
media. She hits pictures. It
says, where do you want
your media to come from?
Choices are the Xbox hard
drive? Any external machine? Like
any computer that's not on,
you know, near the Xbox,
a portable device, like an
iPod or a USB key.
So I just cheat his
clicks, Scott PC, which is
my machine upstairs. And then
immediately has a folder hierarchy
presented to her. Wow. Of
all the photos. So this
is interesting. Just sort of
a, a media center, you
know, replacement, or it sounds
like, Like, so this is
actually a thing that is
very confusing about the Xbox.
In my opinion, it's don't
need them. You don't need
a media center or a
media center PC edition to
do this kind of stuff.
This is built directly into
the Xbox dashboard. Wow. No
IDC. Yeah. If you have
any PC or check this
out, if you have a
Mac and you want to
use the Twinkie music server
for the Mac or the
Twinkie media server that you
pay for that runs cross
platform on the Mac, the
wind or the Xbox three
60 will talk to most,
any UPNP service. Wow. They've
done a fantastic job of
making the Xbox three 60
avail, you know, able to
talk to other things. This
is all again, without using
any of the windows media
center stuff. We'll talk about
that in a second, but
I can look and look
at video. I can look
at music. So this has
been able to basically move
all of my pictures and
all of my music out
of my upstairs bedroom and
into the living room where
it belongs. Right? And since
I've got my wife's family,
staying with us with us
right now to take care
of the baby, we'll take
them out. We'll go to
the mountains. We'll take a
bunch of pictures. We'll come
back and we'll immediately want
to look at those pictures.
As soon as they're on
the computer, they can be
viewed downstairs on the big
screen TV dude. This is
fantastic. When they want to
look at the pictures even
faster, I've got a very
inexpensive Casio XLM digital camera.
The excellent . I can
just take it. And it's
little USB dock downstairs where
the TV and the Xbox
three 60 are plug it
into the Xbox three 60,
right in the front, there
are two USB ports go
to the same exact place
media within the Xbox three
60 dashboard blade, click on
pictures. And it'll say, Oh,
from this digital camera, it'll
automatically flatten the digital cameras
file system. You know, most
digital cameras. You don't actually
get to have your photos
in the route. It's usually
under images, Fu whatever, whatever
those, those details are confusing
to Mort to the average
Joe. So they flatten those
things. They don't see them.
You simply see pictures. Additionally,
any USB key that has
content like a JPEG or
any video or any iPod.
So I was actually able
to take my iPod nano.
This was amazing. I plugged
it in there. Wasn't any
big click. Oh, I'm searching
for a driver. You know
how, when you plug a
USB device into a windows
machine, there's the big, I
think something's happening. Let me
look and see what I
can do about it. Long
pause. You plugged the nano
in boom. I go to
music and it says Scott's
nano suite and I can
play music directly off of
the, the iPod. That's awesome.
That is also going to
also got a Sony PSP,
the PlayStation portable. And I'm
working on getting video to
come off of that, which
is going to be pretty
hot. Hey, this is Carl Franklin
checkout test complete from automated
qa.com. Test complete does automated
testing of windows.net framework, Java
and web applications. It's won
jolt awards two years in
a row from software development
magazine, even though it's been
voted best testing tool test
complete is really affordable. It
costs just a fraction of
what you'd have to pay
for its nearest big name.
Competitor TestComplete is standards based
and extensible with a well-documented
plugin API and the test
scripts use familiar languages, VB
script, JavaScript C sharp script
C plus plus script, and
even Delphi scripts. You choose
the language that works best
for your team. You don't
have to buy a dozen
different modules to test all
your applications. Test complete is
a full test development environment.
It has features like an
easy to use test recorder
that auto creates test scripts
and an advanced script editor
with features like syntax highlighting
code completion, and context sensitive
help. It has test execute
a lightweight utility for running
distributed tests and test recorder,
a library for building tests
into your application. And if
you plan on using visual
studio 2005 team system test
complete integrates nicely with it
and adds a new test
to complete test type. So
do yourself a favor and
download a free evaluation copy
of test complete@automatedqa.com. Now Twinkie
is at Twinkie vision dot
D E or do you
have a, a that's it,
do you have a tiny
URL for that? No, that'll
that'll do it. So T
w O N K, vision
dot D E to wonky
vision. Exactly. Now all of
this that we've been talking
about is simply the windows
media connect support, which is
a fancy way of saying
the Xbox three 60 is
the ultimate UPNP receiver. None
of this has anything to
do with windows media center
right now, windows media center
has the notion of an
extender and an extender is
really, I like to say
that you're basically remote desktopping
into your windows media center.
If you've ever used remote
desktop or VNC to go
in and remote the desktop,
the X original Xbox had
a fantastically crappy X-Box extender.
It was basically a CD
that you put in your
X-Box and you got a
three 20 by two 40
times by eight bit color,
very little animation extender that
gave you a watered down
simpler version of the windows
media center experience. And we
all know that the meeting
center experience is very, very
fluid, very, very gradient, very
soft, very, you know, it's
a very smooth experience. Yeah.
Turns out that the Xbox
three 60 has this built
in this, this technology built
in where they've do all
of the rendering of the
windows media center interface on
the Xbox three 60 itself.
So only the content is
coming back and forth. Wow,
that's what the actual work
and the fluid, the fluidity
is there. Now, I originally
tried doing this with a
wireless adapter. I ended up
using my original Xbox wireless
adapter on the new Xbox
three 60, because it didn't
want to spend $99 to
buy the Xbox three 60
wireless. But I found out
that if you're going to
be doing any kind of
video or any larger MP3s,
you really want to think
about a wired connection. I
know that everyone's saying with
the 54 megabits, you can
get some pretty good bandwidth
with your wireless. I agree
the wired adapter so much
better, but what you can
do with the, some of
the newer, excuse me, some
of the early Xbox three
60 is you have to
watch for this because there's
a sticker on the outside
of the box that says
included for a limited time,
a media center, remote control.
They give you a small
meatus and a remote control,
but only on the first
couple of shipments, you have
to watch for this. If
you don't have it, you
spend $30 to buy this
remote control. We also have
a media center, PC Scott,
I'm sorry. I do. In
fact, have a media center
PC that I built from
scratch. If you go up
and search for media center
on my blog, enhancement.com/blog, then
you'll see how I built
it. I've got a complete
parts list and how you
can build the same thing
from newegg.com. I tried to
build one and it didn't
work for some reason. And
then I just said, screw
it. I went and I
bought a, a Dell media
center PC. Yeah, they are
notoriously hard to set up.
Yeah. And w what's your
impression of, of it? I
mean, you know, the application
itself, the media center application
seems to be my wife's
favorite way to access music,
you know, because of the
icons and stuff. And it's
very, very cool and the
pictures overlap each other and
stuff. And my brother, you
know, he does everything with
a win app. You know,
he's got basically a network
connection to his PC upstairs
that has all his music
on it downstairs. And he
just uses when amp for
everything. But what's your, what's
your impression of it? I
mean, I know that there
are a lot of people
that aren't particularly all that
happy with it. The thing
is that the, the, an
interface like this, which it's
called a 10 foot interface,
but that can be used
from 10 feet away is
written in such a way
that it, it hits 80%
of the market, but sometimes
myself where you or your
brother is not that at
80%. Yeah. If, if, if,
if he likes when app
and when app does what
he needs it to do,
then he's definitely not going
to be satisfied with this.
For example, I've got right
53, I've got 5,300 MP3s.
And I hate the music
section of the windows media
center, because I just can't
get to my songs. I
ended up listening to songs.
I listened to artists that
start with like a and
B, because they're at the
top, right. So I listened
to a lot of, But
There's a lot of music
from Zimbabwe that would love
to listen to, I can't
figure out how to get
there. The, So then, you
know, I understand, I understand
your, your concern. And I
don't know what the answer
is. Other than a little
bit more thought about hot,
you know, hot keys, the
notion of a page down
that was a little bit
more called out would be,
How does the Xbox interface
compare to, to the media
center interface? Yes, It's a
very good point because you
can, you can access your
music either way with the
Xbox three 60. If you're
using a standard PC, you
can just use the built
in dashboard, or you can
remote into the media center
and then look at your
data from there. It is
a built in dashboard. Have
the cool factor that the
windows media PC has. Doesn't
it, it's not as flashy.
It's not as fluid. It
doesn't have that kind of
soft blue look. It's much
more garish look. Although the
Xbox three 60 interface does
allow theming. So you can
have themes and skins that
you can download using a
micro cache, which are called
Microsoft points. You buy. I
think I bought for $25.
I think I bought 2000
Microsoft points. Wow. And then
four for two or 300
points, you can download a
theme so you can get
the Portland trailblazers theme, or
you can get the Brazil
soccer team theme, or the
call of duty two theme,
and it'll scan the whole
thing. So you can change
the interface, but it's not
as fluid as the media
center, but it gets you
there faster. I totally thought
I would be remoting into
the media center to view
my images and to view
our music more and more.
I'm ending up using the
Xbox directly, which has been
very, very interesting. And I
didn't expect it to go
down like that. But from
a wife acceptance factor standpoint,
she had a couple of
ladies come over from her
work recently, and they were
able to sit down with
our harmony eight 80 universal
remote control. They pushed play
Xbox from the activity screen
on the harmony remote control
and turn on the Xbox
turn on the TV, turned
on the HDTV, changed all
the inputs to the right
place. And then just using
the up, down left, right.
And the okay button. We're
able to look at pictures
of the baby. And that
is absolutely unbelievable. I mean,
I can't express how powerful
that is. Yeah. That's the
experience you want. Absolutely. I
feel like with the Xbox
three 60 and with this
harmony eight 80 remote control
and believe me, I've tried
every remote control. And if
you want to check out
remote control information, you go
to remote central.com, fantastic website,
and their forums are unbelievable.
The harmony eight 80 actually
added X-Box three 60 support
as a simple download. So
I can apply. I plugged
the harmony eight 80 into
the, into my computer, went
up to harmony, remote.com. Literally
the day the Xbox showed
up at my doorstep downloaded
the new activities and all
the new content I've actually
been playing Bejeweled using my
harmony remote control. So I
don't even need the media
remote control that came with
the Xbox. Oh, that's so
cool. It's seamlessly integrated with,
with the house. How do
you plug the remote control
in is that USP? And
it, interestingly it uses the
tiny USB adapter, you know,
those little dizzy USB a
and B, and then there's
the really tiny one, right?
You plug it in, you
go up to a website,
the entire application for the
harmony remote is done with
a website, and then they
create a packet of information
with a special extension. Then
when you download that, instead
of saving the packet, you
hit open, it opens into
a browser helper application that
then decodes the air codes
from that packet, and then
downloads it directly into the
harmony suite. Yeah, it's the
bomb. Wow. You know, I
just got a couple of
new TVs end of the
year. I'm I had been
holding out. I mean, I
I've had CRT TVs for
years and years and years.
This is the first time,
you know, this, this Christmas
that actually gotten, gotten with
it in terms of home
media. And so I got
a plasma TV for the
living room and a smaller
LCD TV for the bedroom.
And so this, this is
a welcome timely, a timely
information from you for me.
Yeah. I was planning on
getting an Xbox three 60
after, you know, the next
wave, you know, in January
when the next wave comes
out and hopefully they'll have
fixed that little heating overheating
problem by that time. Yeah.
Interestingly, I haven't had that
problem. I, I'm not sure
if that is something that's
happening for certain people's machines.
It gets only a few,
like keep it on a
carpet or something where there's
no way for the air
to get out the bottom,
Actually, you know, not on
the topic of overheating, but
on another topic don't even
bother turning your X-Box up
and down. Just keep it
horizontal. It turns out that
the, the vertical position is
not ideal for the DVDs
and they have a tendency
to slide a little bit
down and there's no hooks
to actually hold the DVDs
in. So there's been a
number of DVDs that have
been getting scratched. It's better
for the hard drive to
have it have the whole
thing on its side, but
it's much better for the
DVDs if you have the
device horizontal. So I'm keeping
mine horizontal. And if the
DVD isn't accessible, you don't
really have much of an
experience. Not at all, not
at all. Let's talk about
the, the bug fixes of
the day as we, as
we head towards the end
of the, the Hansel minutes.
Okay. So I've got two
pretty good bugs right now.
The first one was an
asp.net bug. And again, when
I say bug, I'm not
necessarily saying it was something
that Microsoft did, it might
have some problems that we've
solved. So we're not impugning
anyone. Most often, it's something
that I've done wrong and
then fixed later. So I'll
call it a bug, even
though it's learning from my
screw up and this one's
up on my blog@tinyurl.com slash
seven K B M Y.
And this was an asp.net
bug where I would have
people visit my site and
get foreign languages that they
didn't speak. And I actually
showed up on my site
recently on a particular page
and noticed that chunks of
my page were in German.
Huh? I was, I mean,
I literally did a double
take. I visited my site
in the dates. You know,
usually it says Friday, November,
whatever it said, you know,
I don't even know how
to say it in German.
It said it in German
and it freaked me out,
visited a couple of pages.
I visited another one. It
was in Turkish. Then I
realized that one of the
performance optimizations that I had
done since my site had
been getting more and more
traffic was that I had
added the output cash directive.
It's a single line that
you put at the top
of your ASP X page,
right? That says cache the
content of this particular page.
I'd added that. And I
put in duration, I think
I put 1800 seconds. And
I put in very bipolar
Ram equals star saying, no
matter on the Earl and
the query string, I want
you to catch a different
version for each thing that
appears in the query string.
So if I said, you
know, permalink dot ASP, X,
good equals, and then whatever
the goo it equals, I
would get one cached version
of the page per value.
So every page has its
own version. Every page has
its own version. And for
everybody that's exactly, that's a
lot of memory thing, welfare
isn't it turned out. Yeah.
That I was cashing the
ver I'm sorry. It's actually
not for everybody. It's based
on the parameters and variables,
Right. It's based on the
parameters. Not session based. Yeah.
Okay. Right. Okay. So let's
say that there's a page.
No one's ever visited before.
It's just sitting out there.
It's not been cashed and
a German visits. I will
say I'm actually going to
DAS blog does this automatically.
I look at his HTTP
headers, specifically the accept language
header. And I see that
he's a German. So then
I being friendly guy that
I am we'll render the
dates and various things that
I am able to the
DAS blog interface in German.
There you go. But that's
First guy. He was the
first guy that visited the
site. That's the one that
gets cashed. If an Englishman
shows up later, I don't
bother looking. I simply know
that I've cast something and
I show blindly what was
cashed. We should also mention
Scott that you are writing
DAS blog. I mean, this
started with Clemens. Fasters right.
And he wrote the original
version With Chris Anderson who
wrote blog X. Oh really?
Okay. Then Clemens in a
caffeinated overnight freaking code session
wrote the first version of
dash blog put up on
god.net, somewhere around in version
one, five or one six.
I got involved. Omar was
around Omar Shaheen, shaheen.com was
around somewhere in one, five,
Omar and I have pretty
much been the DAS blog
stewards since one six. Okay.
And we're, we're on one
eight now. And we've got
actually, as an aside, we've
got new stuff going on
in the DAS blog world.
We've got a new DAS
blog information site. It does
blog.info, www.dasblog.info. And we've got
a whole series of forums.
We like to say they're
for us, there are DAS
blog.us. Okay. So we've got
support forums@dasblog.us. And we've got
information at dusk blog that
info. So how did you
solve the problem? Did you
vary by by culture? Yeah,
we had to actually vary
by header because the culture
information, the accept language header
is located inside of the
HTP headers. So the output
cache now says output cache
vary by parameter equals star
vary by header equals except
hyphen language. So now each
version of the page gets
each line. Each language gets
its own version of the
page. So there's a German
version of cash. There's a
Turkish version, et cetera. It
does add some more memory
usage, but it gives me
the same experience. I can
imagine the email, Hey, I
wish I went to this
page and what he tried
to do to me. Yeah.
Yeah. It was a problem.
And I, I realized that
it actually been in there
for a very, very long
time. It wasn't actually a
DAS blog bug. Cause it
was my output caching that
I had added. Right. A
valuable thing to know at
any rate. Okay. And finally,
there's a, a publisher policy
issue that you had that
you wanted to talk about
this week. Yeah. Publisher policy
is something that's not very
well understood, but in a
nutshell, you know, that.net has
this notion of versioning. That's
very intrinsic to the, the
notion of an assembly. And
the notion of versioning is
very fundamental to the way
dosh, the way that the.net
framework and the loader works.
You've got these four numbers,
major, minor build revision. And
when a publisher like I'll
use, you know, my buddy,
Peter Blom, as an example,
is publishing some thing he
decides to release his validation
and more controls. He might
say, these are version 2.0
0.0 0.0. And he'll put
them in the global assembly
cache so that they are
available to anyone in any
machine. To me, anything rather
on the entire machine, they
become a, a system wide
assembly. And then later on
I will write code to
Peter's stuff and I will
be intrinsically linked to 2.0
point, Oh, if something gets
fixed in Peter stuff and
he has to release 2.0
0.1, do I have to
recompile? Or can Peter provide
some XML configuration document that
would indicate to my application?
I strongly recommend that because
you're on version two. Oh,
that has some known bug
that you, in fact, not
receive what you asked for,
but instead the bug fixed
version. So when he puts
his application into the GAC,
he can include a signed
publisher policy file that says,
I am Peter Blom. I
am the publisher. I have
signed this. And I am
going to insist that anyone
who requests to O gets
two Oh one. Yep. So
that's publisher policy, and this
is for fixing bugs. So
Peter Thomas, a guy that works
at Karelian, who was one
of our deep understanding of
the loader and deep understandings
of a installer type, people
was doing some debugging on
some behavioral quirks and things.
And he had a publisher
policy file with a version
of 3.1. And he had
another one for, you know,
for testing purposes. That was
version 20. So N two
O dot O dot Oh,
dot know. So he fully
expected that the 20 version
20 would be loaded. So
then he would see within
the fusion logs, how things
were working, but it wasn't,
it wasn't happening. It was
in fact happening in the
wrong, in the wrong order.
He was noticing that single
digit warns were working, but
double digit ones, we're not,
he could put in a
version nine and things worked,
but version 10, version 11
version, 20 things like this
were not valid. So publisher
policy doesn't appear to work
in the way that we
would think it would with
your using double digit major
versions. This is in.net one
dot X. Wow. So in
Don at one dot X,
when you're using publisher policy,
you would like, you really
should avoid double digit version
numbers because it appears that
they're being sorted alphabetically rather
than numerically. I don't know
if that's necessarily the case,
but that is what appears,
There's really no work around
for this. This is just
a, A bug there really
isn't. And in, in to,
Oh, this has been indirectly
fixed due to using something
called the policy cash. And
there's a gentleman named John
Fang who on as a
Microsoft employee. And he has
talked about the policy cash
at his blog. And if
you can go up to
ours to, to my site,
the publisher policy bug is
tiny url.com/c M M five
w. And I have a
link to junk fangs. A
site from there talks about
the publisher policy cast. The
code with that particular calculation
error is avoided using this,
this policy cash. This is
a very, very little known
bug. It will likely be
fixed in the Longhorn timeframe.
So we'll probably have this
fixed by next summer, but
it's fairly obscure. I doubt
that there are people out
there with version 20 of
their particular application, but if
you are doing publisher policy
on.net, one dot X do
avoid using double digit version
numbers where you might not
get what you expect. Good
point. It's crazy stuff. This
is the kind of weird
stuff that we end up
popping into Valuable. I think
in, in let's hear from
the listeners out there, do
you think this is good?
I mean, I, I personally,
every time I talked to
Scott, I learned something and
let us know, send your
comments to.net rocks at Franklin's
dot net. And let's, let's
see what, what people think.
Yeah. I really, you know,
in all my talks, whether
I'm talking on stage or
with an I Neta thing,
my total goal, and you
can see this in my
blog because in my blog,
I am pretty tourist. I
don't, I'm not very verbose,
right? I don't want to
waste anybody's time. So, you
know, I encourage you to
listen to this podcast on
double speed using the windows,
media, whatever it takes for
you to squeeze as much
information out of it as
possible, Or depending on the
time of day. Half-speed Exactly.
But the point is I
want them to know that
we will, if they find
this boring, if they find
the chatter boring, they want
more chatter tell us, and
we'll do it. Right. All
right, Scott, you try to
get some sleep and keep
washing your hands. You know,
what can I say? Poop
happens, Carl. I wanted to
thank you for the opportunity
to use your equipment and
use your expertise and kind
of introduce some new kind
of content. Hopefully that people
will find useful. We're going
to keep it short. We're
going to keep it sweet.
We're going to keep it
dense and keep it coming.
Scott, what can I say?
Thank you for, for agreeing
to do this. And, and
again, you know, send us
your comments, your threats, and
everything else. And we'll talk
to you next week on
minutes, Councilman, it's just produced
by plop productions, providing professional
audio and podcasting services online
at www dot  dot
com. Wow. It's time to
get your impact back.